# EEG-artefact-rejection
### Machine learning techniques for EEG

The Second Order Blind Inference (SOBI) algorithm is a Blind Source Seperation technique that uses decorrelation across several time-lags of the signal as its main computation step (Belouchrani, 1997). This repository contains a SOBI implementation in Python 3.4, automated for the application of EOG artifact removal in EEG data as described by Joyce (2004). 
For a tutorial on how to use the SOBI class, see `SOBI tutorial.ipynb`.
For the literature review that lead to the choice for SOBI for this application, see `EEG_artifact_correction_report.pdf`.
For documentation on the implementation and validation of the SOBI algorithm, see `SOBI_implementation_doc.pdf`

# Content

## Files
> EEG_artifact_correction_report
Literature study of the EOG artifact problem in EEG data, and a review of possible machine learning solutions.

> SOBI_implementation_doc
Documentation of implementation and validation of the SOBI algorithm in python 3.4. 

> EEG data (Klados datasets)
Contains information on the simulated data, as described in 'A semi-simulated EEG/EOG dataset for the  comparison of EOG artifact rejection techniques' by Klados (2016). 

## Folders

#### Literature 
Contains all articles cited in 'EEG artifact correction report' and 'SOBI implementation doc'.

#### Meta docs
Contains all meta information about the planning of this project. 

#### plot scripts
Contains all scripts used for creating plots in presentations, report, and implementation documentation.

#### SOBI
Contains the following files written in Python 3.4:
* SOBI.py: The class containing the Second Order Blind Inference algorithm.
* joint_diagonalizer.py: Script containing 4 algorithms that can be used for joint diagonalization.
* sim_data.py: Script that reads the simulated data from the Data folder and returns it as an array object.
* Validate.py: The class object used to validate the correction applied by the SOBI algorithm for either simulated data or acquired data. 

Contains the following subfolders:
* acdc: Matlab files of ACDC algorithm implementation by 
 Dr. Arie Yeredor,
 School of Electrical Engineering,
 Tel-Aviv University.
 e-mail: arie@eng.tau.ac.il
 web-site: www.eng.tau.ac.il\~arie
* crossval: data generated by cross-validation analysis, formatted in csv files.
* Data: the Klados datasets. See header 'EEG data (Klados datasets)' for more information
* Figures: contains 3 subfolders with figures of 'BandX': true and observed signals, 'Corrections': corrections applied by SOBI with parameters as described by Belouchrani(1997), Sutherland(2004) and Joyce(2004).
* frob: C files of Fast Frobenius algorithm implementation as used in R.


